# 662_Smart_Dust_Bin
Technology always help mankind in making life easier. Now presenting an innovative way which revolutionize the trash management system through this we are taking a step towards clean India. Present scenario in the public places where proper disposal is not being done because of which we come across overflow dustbins. Even the private areas which are clean enough failed to utilize the resources efficiently. To properly manage the waste it has to be handled, segregated, transported and disposed so as to reduce the risks to the public lives and sustainable environmental There is a rapid increase in capacity and categories of solid waste as a result of urbanization, constant economic growth, and industrialization. Global Waste Management Market reported that the amount of waste generated worldwide produced is 2.02 billion tones. This method is easy and simple solution of segregation of three types of wastes dry, metal and wet. It is designed to sort the trash into metallic waste, wet waste and dry waste ready to be processed separately for the next process of operation for this. Using Embedded technology to continuous monitoring the dustbin in order to check whether dustbin is full or not. Wireless sensors sense the amount of waste in the containers if it reached the maximum container capacity, sends instant messages to the trash management department which deploy them to collect the garbage in no time. By implementing this product at different location, instead of driving blindly on the static routes, we can optimize the collection schedule.
